1. The Teapot, known as the “Utah Teapot”

2. TEAPOT was created at the University of Utah by Martin Newell in 1975.

3. The length of an edge joining the vertex to a corner of the base is called the slant height.

4. The perpendicular distance between the vertex and the base is called the height or altitude.

5. When the base is a square, we call it a square pyramid.It has 4 triangular faces and a square base.

6. A triangular pyramid has 3 triangular faces and a triangular base.

7. A cylinder, is a pile of circles. A can is a cylinder. The base and top are circles, the sides or curved surface is a rectangle that 
    has been wrapped around the circles.we measure the radius and circumference of the circular base and the height of the rectanglular "sides".

8. The line joining the vertex to the circumference of the circular base is called slant height (like in a pyramid), and the vertical distance 
    between the vertex and base is called the height.

9. A sphere or orb is the correct term for a ball or globe.

10. Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG) 

11. solid modelling by generating a new object from two three dimensional objects using a set operation 

12. Valid set operations include - Union ,Intersection , Difference 

13. CSG does not require quadrics, it can work other types of solid representation. 

14. Points  Attributes: Size, Color.

15. Lines  Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

16. Polylines (open)  A set of line segments joined end to end.
                                 Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

17. Polylines (closed)  A polyline with the last point connected to the first point .
                                   Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

18. Polygons  A set of line segments joined end to end.
                      Attributes: Fill color, Thickness, Fill pattern

19. Line drawing is fundamental to computer graphics.

20. Compute one point based on the previous point: (x0, y0).....................(xk, yk) (xk+1, yk+1) .......

21. SLOPE small =  column

22. SLOPE	 large = row

23. Digital Differential Analyzer Algorithm is an incremental algorithm.

24. DDA- Digital Differential Analyzer Algorithm 

25. Coordinates of Midpoint = ( xk+1, yk+(1/2) )

26. If the midpoint is below the line, then the next pixel is (xk+1, yk+1).

27. If the midpoint is above the line, then the next pixel is (xk+1, yk).

28. Geometric modeling is a branch of applied mathematics and computational geometry that studies methods and algorithms for the
      mathematical description of shapes.

29. three main types of geometric models:wire frame models,surface models,solid models

30. GM is Introduced in 1960s

31. In 1970’s developed to draw wireframe and surface models

32. In mid 1980’s used to draw solid models.

33. Topology - refers to the connectivity and relationship between geometric entities like vertices, edges, and faces.
      It describes the structural shape of the model.

34. Geometry refers to the actual coordinate/ dimensional values and mathematical representation of the shapes.

35. CNC - COMPUTER NUMERICAL CONTROL.

36.  The Teapot, known as the “Utah Teapot”

37. TEAPOT was created at the University of Utah by Martin Newell in 1975.

38. The length of an edge joining the vertex to a corner of the base is called the slant height.

39. The perpendicular distance between the vertex and the base is called the height or altitude.

40. When the base is a square, we call it a square pyramid.It has 4 triangular faces and a square base.

41. A triangular pyramid has 3 triangular faces and a triangular base.

42. A cylinder, is a pile of circles. A can is a cylinder. The base and top are circles, the sides or curved surface 
      is a rectangle that has been wrapped around the circles. We measure the radius and circumference of the circular base
      and the height of the rectanglular "sides".

43. The line joining the vertex to the circumference of the circular base is called slant height (like in a pyramid),
      and the vertical distance between the vertex and base is called the height.

44. A sphere or orb is the correct term for a ball or globe.

45. Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG) 

46. solid modelling by generating a new object from two three dimensional objects using a set operation 

47. Valid set operations include - Union ,Intersection , Difference 

48. CSG does not require quadrics, it can work other types of solid representation. 

49. Points  Attributes: Size, Color.

50. Lines  Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

51. Polylines (open)  A set of line segments joined end to end.
                                 Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

52. Polylines (closed)  A polyline with the last point connected to the first point .
                                   Attributes: Color, Thickness, Type

53. Polygons  A set of line segments joined end to end.
                      Attributes: Fill color, Thickness, Fill pattern

54. Line drawing is fundamental to computer graphics.

55. Compute one point based on the previous point:
      (x0, y0).....................(xk, yk) (xk+1, yk+1) .......

56. SLOPE small =  column

57. SLOPE	 large = row

58. Digital Differential Analyzer Algorithm is an incremental algorithm.

59. DDA- Digital Differential Analyzer Algorithm 

60. Coordinates of Midpoint = ( xk+1, yk+(1/2) )

61. If the midpoint is below the line, then the next pixel is (xk+1, yk+1).

62. If the midpoint is above the line, then the next pixel is (xk+1, yk).

63. Geometric modeling is a branch of applied mathematics and computational geometry that studies methods and algorithms for the mathematical description of              
      shapes.

64. three main types of geometric models:wire frame models,surface models,solid models

65. GM is Introduced in 1960s

66. In 1970’s developed to draw wireframe and surface models

67. In mid 1980’s used to draw solid models.

68. Topology - refers to the connectivity and relationship between geometric entities like vertices, edges, and faces. It describes the structural shape of the model.

69. Wireframe Modelling - Developed in 1960s and referred as “a stick figure” or “an edge representation”

70. Wireframe modelling disadvantage (Ambiguity- complex model difficult to interpret).

71. A surface model represents the skin of an object, these skins have no thickness or material type ”

72. In general, a wireframe model can be extracted from a surface model by deleting or blanking all surface entities

73. Surface models define only the geometry, no topology.

74. The solid modeling technique is based upon the "half-space" concept.

75. Store both geometric and topological information; can verify whether two objects occupy the same space.

76. Surfaces can be considered half-space boundaries and half spaces can be considered directed surfaces

77. The most commonly used half-spaces are – planar, cylindrical, spherical, conical, and toroidal.

80. Boundary Representation (B-Rep)

81. The boundary representation method represents a solid as a collection of boundary surfaces.

82.Sweeping is most convenient for solids with translational or rotational symmetry.Sweeping also has the capability to guarantee a closed object.

83. Computer graphics can be created as either raster or vector images.

84. Raster graphics are bitmaps.

85. A bitmap is a grid of individual pixels that collectively compose an image.

86. Raster graphics render images as a collection of countless tiny squares.

87. Each square, or pixel, is coded in a specific hue or shade.

88. The data behind the raster is a matrix organized by rows and columns

89. Squares represent the raster data that describe the features’ interiors, and vector data is a description of the boundaries or exteriors.

90. wireframe model - is built up using a series of connected lines. This image can be simplified by removing lines that are hidden.

91. surface model - is built up by drawing the surfaces of an object. Colours, shading and textures can be added to produce realistic-looking images.

92.solid model - is built up using simple geometric forms such as cones,cylinders, prisms and cuboids. These can be added or subtracted to produce complex 3-D models

